[ROCK MUSIC]
♪ ♪
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>> John: WELCOME,
WELCOME, WELCOME
TO "LAST WEEK TONIGHT."
I'M JOHN OLIVER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
IT HAS BEEN ANOTHER
FRANTIC WEEK.
A NEW AND TERRIBLE HEALTH-CARE
BILL WAS PUSHED IN THE SENATE,
THE PRESIDENT CALLED KIM JONG UN
"ROCKET MAN" AT THE U.N.
THERE WERE SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENTS IN
ROBERT MUELLER'S RUSSIA
INVESTIGATION, AND THEN THIS
WEEKEND, ALL HELL BROKE LOOSE.
>> THE PRESIDENT NOW PICKING
A FIGHT WITH PROFESSIONAL
ATHLETES.
TAKING AIM AT PLAYERS LIKE
COLIN KAEPERNICK WHO PROTESTED
THE TREATMENT OF BLACKS
BY POLICE BY TAKING A KNEE
DURING THE NATIONAL ANTHEM.
>> WOULDN'T YOU LOVE TO SEE
ONE OF THESE NFL OWNERS, WHEN
SOMEBODY DISRESPECTS OUR FLAG,
TO SAY, "GET THAT SON OF A BITCH
OFF THE FIELD."
RIGHT NOW.
OUT.
HE'S FIRED.
HE'S FIRED!
>> John: OKAY, PUTTING ASIDE
THE FREE-SPEECH IMPLICATIONS,
HOW IS KNEELING IN FRONT OF
A FLAG MORE DISRESPECTFUL TO IT
THAN GRINDING IT AGAINST
YOUR GNARLED OLD BONER?
BUT I'M AFRAID IT'S TRUE.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TOOK TIME OUT WHILE --
IT'S WORTH NOTING --
OVER 3 MILLION AMERICAN CITIZENS
IN PUERTO RICO ARE WITHOUT POWER
TO CALL COLIN KAEPERNICK
A SON OF A BITCH.
KAEPERNICK'S OWN MOTHER,
INCIDENTALLY, MAGNIFICENTLY
RESPONDING, "GUESS THAT MAKES ME
A PROUD BITCH!"
AND THAT WAS ONE OF MANY
EYE-CATCHING RESPONSES TO TRUMP,
INCLUDING BILLS RUNNING BACK
LeSEAN McCOY TWEETING,
"IT'S REALLY SAD, MAN...
OUR PRESIDENT IS A ASSHOLE."
MEANWHILE, MANY MORE PLAYERS
TOOK A KNEE THIS AFTERNOON,
AND EVEN NFL COMMISSIONER
ROGER GOODELL DENOUNCED
THE PRESIDENT'S COMMENTS.
AND WHEN YOU'VE LOST THE MORAL
HIGH GROUND TO
ROGER FUCKING GOODELL,
SOMETHING IS HORRIBLY WRONG,
WHICH IS NOT TO SAY THAT TRUMP
DIDN'T HAVE HIS SUPPORTERS
ON THIS ISSUE, AND NONE WERE
MORE VIGOROUS THAN FOX NEWS'S
JEANINE PIRRO, WHO DELIVERED
A CHARACTERISTICALLY CALM
AND MEASURED ADDRESS TO THOSE
KNEELING FOOTBALL PLAYERS.
>> AMERICA'S BEEN INCREDIBLY
GOOD TO EVERY ONE OF YOU.
FROM THE TIME YOU DISPLAYED
TALENT IN SPORTS AS A YOUTH,
AMERICA'S ALLOWED YOU TO SHINE
AND BECOME FINANCIALLY
PROSPEROUS.
THERE ARE SO MANY OF YOU
WHO MAKE TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS.
SHAME ON YOU.
SHAME ON ALL OF YOU.
>> John: WOW.
BUT YOU KNOW WHAT?
SHE'S RIGHT.
NO ONE WANTS TO HEAR ABOUT
POLITICS FROM A WILDLY
SUCCESSFUL ATHLETE.
YOU ONLY WANT TO HEAR ABOUT THEM
FROM AN ABJECT FAILURE
OF A PROSECUTOR WHO SOMEHOW
LET ROBERT DURST SLIP THROUGH
HER FINGERS.
AND BY THE WAY, JEANINE,
THERE'S A FLAG BEHIND YOU.
HAVE SOME FUCKING RESPECT.
BUT LET'S MOVE ON, BECAUSE I'D
LIKE TO BRIEFLY FOCUS ON A PAIR
OF SCANDALS CONCERNING TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
AND THEIR USE OF PLANES.
AND LET'S START WITH TOM PRICE
WHO, IT EMERGED THIS WEEK,
HAS REPORTEDLY TAKEN AT LEAST
TWO DOZEN PRIVATE PLANE TRIPS
SINCE HE BECAME HEALTH
SECRETARY, WHICH BY ONE ESTIMATE
HAS COST TAXPAYERS MORE THAN
$400,000.
AND LOOK, AN OCCASIONAL PRIVATE
JET FLIGHT MAY BE NECESSARY
FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
BUT FOR MANY OF THESE FLIGHTS,
INCLUDING ONE TO PHILADELPHIA,
IT TURNS OUT FAR LESS COSTLY
ALTERNATIVES WERE AVAILABLE,
AS CNN'S GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT
CREATIVELY SHOWED.
>> THERE WAS A COMMERCIAL FLIGHT
DEPARTING JUST MINUTES EARLIER.
THAT COMMERCIAL FLIGHT WOULD
HAVE COST BETWEEN $500 AND $700.
AND OF COURSE, THERE WAS ALSO
THE OPTION OF AMTRAK.
A TRAIN FROM WASHINGTON
TO PHILADELPHIA, EVEN IN FIRST
CLASS, WOULD'VE COST TAXPAYERS
NO MORE THAN A FEW HUNDRED
DOLLARS ROUND TRIP.
THE SAME TRIP BY CAR WOULD'VE
COST AN ESTIMATED $18
IN GASOLINE EACH WAY FOR AN SUV.
>> John: OH, IT GETS WORSE, CNN.
PRICE COULD'VE TAKEN
A GREYHOUND BUS FOR EITHER
$10 OR A HANDJOB.
OR HE COULD'VE JUST
RAZOR SCOOTERED THERE INSTEAD.
OR EVEN FIRED HIMSELF
OUT OF A CANNON AND SAVED US ALL
A LOT OF MONEY.
AND YET, ACCORDING TO POLITICO,
HE MAY'VE PAID $25,000 FOR THAT
TRIP, WHICH IS DISGRACEFUL.
NOT AS DISGRACEFUL AS THIS
ACTUAL MUSTACHE HE USED TO HAVE.
BUT STILL, ABSOLUTELY
UNFORGIVABLE.
LOOK AT IT.
IT'S LIKE HIS UPPER LIP
IS BEING HAUNTED BY THE MUSTACHE
OF A SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY
SEX OFFENDER.
BUT FOR SHEER BRAZENNESS,
PRICE HAS TO TAKE A FULLY
RECLINABLE BACKSEAT TO
TREASURY SECRETARY
STEVE MNUCHIN, A MAN WHOSE
APPEARANCE PROVIDES US WITH AN
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION,
"WHAT IF INCOME INEQUALITY
DRESSED UP AS ME, JOHN OLIVER,
FOR HALLOWEEN?"
YOU PROBABLY RECALL THAT LAST
MONTH, MNUCHIN'S WIFE,
LOUISE LINTON, SEEN HERE ON HER
WEDDING DAY, SILENTLY REMINDING
HERSELF OVER AND OVER AGAIN
THAT THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT
SHE WANTED, STEPPED INTO A BIT
OF TROUBLE WHEN SHE ACCOMPANIED
HER HUSBAND ON A TRIP
TO KENTUCKY.
>> IT ALL STARTED WHEN LOUISE
LINTON POSTED A PICTURE OF
HERSELF GETTING OFF A GOVERNMENT
PLANE, MENTIONING DESIGNER
LABELS FROM HER OUTFIT,
INCLUDING HERMES AND TOM FORD.
AN OREGON WOMAN RESPONDED,
"GLAD WE COULD PAY YOUR GET
AWAY.
#DEPLORABLE."
LINTON FIRED BACK, WRITING,
"PRETTY SURE THE AMOUNT WE
SACRIFICE PER YEAR IS A LOT MORE
THAN YOU'D BE WILLING TO
SACRIFICE" AND "YOU'RE ADORABLY
OUT OF TOUCH."
>> John: IT'S A BIT IRONIC THAT
LINTON, WHO TAGGED HER PHOTO
#ValentinoRockstudheels
IS CALLING SOMEONE ELSE
OUT OF TOUCH.
BECAUSE ROCKSTUD HEELS?
REALLY, LOUISE?
WHAT IS THIS, VALENTINO'S FALL
2010 READY-TO-WEAR SHOW?
IS THERE SOME ASYMMETRICAL
PASTEL ORGANZA YOU'D LIKE
TO PAIR THEM WITH?
MAYBE SOMETHING FLOATY
WITH A SCALLOPED HEM?
OR IS IT SEVEN YEARS AGO ONLY
FROM THE ANKLE DOWN?
HMM?
I'M JUST SAYING.
IF YOU'VE NEVER SEEN VALENTINO
ROCKSTUD HEELS,
FIRST CONGRATULATIONS,
BUT IF YOU'RE CURIOUS,
JUST GOOGLE IMAGE,
"A STYLIST PHONES IT IN
FOR A CW STAR'S RED CARPET
APPEARANCE AT THE PEOPLE'S
CHOICE AWARDS."
YOU WILL FIND THEM.
BUT THE STRANGEST PART OF
LINTON'S RESPONSE CAME WHEN
SHE WROTE, "DO YOU THINK THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT PAID FOR OUR
HONEYMOON OR PERSONAL TRAVEL?
LOLOLOL."
TO WHICH THE ANSWER IS,
"I HADN'T ACTUALLY CONSIDERED
THAT, BUT NOW THAT YOU'VE
BROUGHT IT UP, YEAH,
ALMOST DEFINITELY."
AND GUESS WHAT WE FOUND OUT
JUST LAST WEEK?
>> MULTIMILLIONAIRE TREASURY
SECRETARY STEVEN MNUCHIN
FORMALLY REQUESTED THAT HE AND
HIS NEW WIFE, LOUISE, REGULARLY
SEEN IN DESIGNER CLOTHES
WITH PURSES AT $10,000 PLUS,
BE ALLOWED TO TRAVEL IN STYLE
IN A GOVERNMENT JET ON THEIR
HONEYMOON TO EUROPE.
>> John: IT'S TRUE, A MAN
WORTH AN ESTIMATED $300 MILLION
ASKED TO USE A GOVERNMENT JET
FOR HIS EUROPEAN HONEYMOON.
AND THE REQUEST WAS LATER
WITHDRAWN, WHICH IS GOOD,
BECAUSE THAT WOULD'VE BEEN
A BREATHTAKING WASTE OF MONEY.
AND THAT'S REALLY SAYING
SOMETHING FOR MNUCHIN,
CONSIDERING HE INVESTED IN
"COLLATERAL BEAUTY,"
A MOVIE THAT WAS -- AND NOT A
LOT OF PEOPLE KNOW THIS --
A MOVIE.
BUT MEANWHILE, MNUCHIN IS STILL
FACING QUESTIONS OVER WHETHER HE
AND HIS WIFE ARRANGED THAT TRIP
TO KENTUCKY BECAUSE IT HAPPENED
TO BE THE PERFECT SPOT FROM
WHICH TO VIEW THE SOLAR ECLIPSE.
AND LAST WEEK, MNUCHIN FIERCELY
DENIED THAT AND CASUALLY
INSULTED THE ENTIRE STATE
OF KENTUCKY IN THE PROCESS.
>> YOU KNOW, PEOPLE IN KENTUCKY
TOOK THIS STUFF VERY SERIOUSLY.
BEING A NEW YORKER,
IN CALIFORNIA, I WAS LIKE,
THE ECLIPSE.
SO WE GOT THERE.
I WAS LIKE, REALLY?
I DON'T HAVE ANY INTEREST
IN WATCHING THE ECLIPSE.
>> John: WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT?
IT'S A FUCKING ECLIPSE,
NOT A BROADWAY SHOW.
"I LIVE IN MANHATTAN
SO I SEE ECLIPSES ALL THE TIME.
I'LL LEAVE WORK A LITTLE EARLY,
GRAB A PRE-ECLIPSE DINNER
AT JOE ALLEN, AND THEN GO.
I DON'T HAVE TIME TO GO TO
KENTUCKY TO SEE SOME
TOURING-COMPANY ECLIPSE."
AND LOOK, I KNOW MNUCHIN
AND PRICE'S SCANDALS ARE NOT
THE BIGGEST IN THE WORLD.
FOR THIS ADMINISTRATION, THEY'RE
ALMOST NOSTALGICALLY QUAINT.
BUT TO QUOTE AMERICA'S
LOUDEST LEGAL MIND,
"AMERICA'S BEEN INCREDIBLY GOOD
TO THEM.
IT'S ALLOWED THEM TO SHINE
AND BECOME FINANCIALLY
PROSPEROUS, AND THEY'VE MADE
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
THEY HAVE DISGRACED
THE AMERICAN TAXPAYER.
SO SHAME ON YOU.
SHAME ON BOTH OF YOU."
AND NOW THIS.
>> Announcer: AND NOW A
PREVIEW OF MEGYN KELLY'S NEW
MORNING SHOW.
>> IN A WORLD, IN A COUNTRY
THAT'S INCREDIBLY DIVIDED RIGHT
NOW.
MY HOPE IS THAT THIS SHOW CAN BE
A UNIFYING FORCE.
>> Announcer: A LOOK AT THE
UNIFYING FORCE THAT IS MEGYN
KELLY.
>> GAY RIGHTS ARE MORE PROTECTED
AND RECOGNIZED IN THIS COUNTRY.
CHRISTIAN BELIEFS ON CHRISTIAN
RIGHTS, NOT SO MUCH.
THIS IS ABOUT THE ATTEMPTED WAR
ON THE RELIGIOUS RIGHT, NOT THE
WAR ON WOMEN.
FOR YOUR KIDS, SANTA IS WHITE.
JESUS WAS A WHITE MAN TOO.
>> THE DECISION TO DROP THE CASE
AGAINST THE BLACK PANTHER CASE.
KILL SOME CRACKER BABIES.
DO YOU HATE WHITE PEOPLE?
IS PRESIDENT OBAMA PLAYING THE
RACE CARD?
DO BLACK LIVES MATTER OR DO ALL
LIVES MATTER?
LAST NIGHT'S DEBATE FOUND FIVE
PRESIDENTIAL CONTENDERS
SUGGESTING BLACK LIVES MAY HAVE
MORE VALUE THAN ALL LIVES.
ARE THESE THUGS?
THUGS IS NOT FAR OFF THE MARK.
THUG MENTALITY.
THAT IT'S COOL TO HATE THE COPS
AND HANG OUT AND BE SOMEBODY WHO
DOESN'T PRIZE BEING THERE FOR
YOUR FAMILY.
ILLEGALS.
LATE-TERM ABORTIONS.
VOTER FRAUD.
WAR ON CHRISTMAS.
LOOK AT THAT MORE ON.
IF YOU WATCH THE VMAs, HAVE TO
WONDER THEY'RE GOING TO BE
OPENLY HAVING INTERCOURSE.
>> WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE ROLE GOD
HAS PLAYED.
>> YOU SAY WHAT YOU BELIEVE.
>> I DON'T.
>> I DO.
>> YOU ARE AN OPINION GUY.
I AM A JOURNALIST.
>> John: MOVING ON.
TONIGHT I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU
ABOUT BUSINESS, THE THING THAT
EVERYONE ON "SHARK TANK" THINKS
THEY A GREAT IDEA FOR,
EVEN THIS GUY.
>> OUR CAKES ARE MADE OF FOAM,
AND THEY'RE RENTALS.
>> John: WAIT.
SO I CAN NEITHER HAVE MY CAKE
NOR EAT IT TOO?
I'M IN.
HERE'S A MILLION DOLLARS.
SMALL STARTUP BUSINESSES LIKE
THAT HOLD A SPECIAL
PLACE IN AMERICA'S HEART,
AND POLITICIANS FROM ACROSS THE
POLITICAL SPECTRUM LOVE TO TALK
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT THEY ARE.
>> SMALL BUSINESSES ARE
THE BACKBONE OF OUR ECONOMY.
>> SMALL BUSINESSES ARE THE
BACKBONE OF OUR ECONOMY.
>> SMALL BUSINESSES ARE
THE BACKBONE OF OUR ECONOMY.
>> John: IT'S TRUE.
IT'S THE RARE THING
EVERY POLITICIAN AGREES ON.
IT'S THAT,
"SUPPORT THE TROOPS,"
"TED CRUZ CAN GO FUCK HIMSELF,"
AND SOUTH DAKOTA SENATOR
JOHN THUNE CAN GET IT.
HE CAN GET IT.
IT CAN FEEL LIKE WE'RE IN
A GOLDEN AGE OF SMALL-BUSINESS
STARTUPS, BUT THAT ISN'T
ACTUALLY THE CASE.
THE RATE AT WHICH NEW BUSINESSES
ARE BEING CREATED HAS ACTUALLY
BEEN STEADILY FALLING
SINCE THE 1970s.
AND I'D ARGUE ONE OF THE REASONS
FOR THAT IS THAT BIG BUSINESSES
HAVE BEEN GETTING EVEN BIGGER.
WHICH BRINGS US TO OUR MAIN
TOPIC TONIGHT,
CORPORATE CONSOLIDATION.
RECENT YEARS HAVE SEEN
RECORD HIGHS FOR MERGERS
AND ACQUISITIONS, AS YOU'D KNOW
IF YOU'D EVER WATCHED THE
THRILLED REACTIONS
ON BUSINESS NEWS.
>> M&A HAS BEEN HOT,
CONTINUES TO BE HOT.
>> AN EXCITING YEAR FOR M&A.
>> A FEW BLOCKBUSTER DEALS
BEING ANNOUNCED.
THEY CALL IT MERGER MONDAY
ON WALL STREET.
>> IT IS SHAPING UP TO BE
ANOTHER MERGER MONDAY.
>> THEY DON'T CALL IT
MERGER MONDAY FOR NOTHING.
>> MEDIA MEGA MERGE MONDAY.
MMM.
>> MERGER MONDAY?
AT LAST WE HAVE ONE.
AND I SAY...
♪ HALLELUJAH ♪
>> John: OKAY, THAT'S A LITTLE
NAUSEATING.
BUT PRESSING A BUTTON ON TV
IS DANGEROUS.
BECAUSE SOMEONE COULD TAKE THAT
FOOTAGE AND LOOP ANY SOUND
THEY WANT UNDER THERE.
OBVIOUSLY, I'M NOT IMMATURE
ENOUGH TO DO THAT.
BUT IF I WERE,
IT WOULD LOOK LIKE THIS.
>> MERGER MONDAY?
AT LAST WE HAVE ONE.
AND I SAY...
[FARTING NOISE]
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>> John: THE POINT IS, ALL THIS
MERGER ACTIVITY HAS HELPED MAKE
SOME SECTORS OF OUR ECONOMY
RIDICULOUSLY CONSOLIDATED.
>> THE UNITED STATES HAS GONE
FROM HAVING TEN LARGE AIRLINES
BACK IN 2000 TO JUST FOUR TODAY.
AND THOSE FOUR MEGA AIRLINES
NOW DOMINATE MORE THAN EIGHTY
PERCENT OF THE U.S. MARKET.
>> John: YES, WE'RE DOWN TO JUST
FOUR MAJOR AIRLINE CHOICES.
AND, NO, THAT DOESN'T INCLUDE
JET BLUE, BECAUSE THAT'S NOT
AN AIRLINE.
IT'S JUST A VERY EXPENSIVE WAY
TO EAT THOSE WEIRD BLUE CHIPS,
WHICH ARE -- AND THIS IS TRUE --
JUST SLICED GROVER ARMS.
AND AIRLINES ARE JUST
THE BEGINNING.
THE RENTAL CAR BUSINESS IS NOW
90% DOMINATED BY JUST THREE
COMPANIES.
THE U.S. BEER INDUSTRY
IS 70% CONTROLLED BY JUST
TWO COMPANIES.
AND ONLINE SEARCH ENGINES ARE,
OF COURSE, AS WE ALL KNOW,
DOMINATED BY ONE WEBSITE.
THAT'S RIGHT, SAY IT WITH ME.
BING.
YES, BING:
THE BEST WAY TO GOOGLE
SOMETHING.
IN FACT, FULL DISCLOSURE.
EVEN OUR OWN PARENT COMPANY,
TIME WARNER, IS CURRENTLY TRYING
TO MERGE WITH AT&T.
WHICH MAKES THIS STORY A LITTLE
DANGEROUS FOR US TO DO.
ALTHOUGH THAT'S PRESUMING
AT&T EXECUTIVES MANAGE TO GET
THEIR SHITTY SERVICE WORKING
LONG ENOUGH TO SEE IT.
AT&T.
IT'S THE TOP TELECOM COMPANY
AROUND, ALPHABETICALLY,
AND NOTHING ELSE.
EVEN SOME BRANDS THAT YOU MIGHT
THINK OF AS INDIE NOW HAVE
MULTINATIONAL OWNERS.
BURT'S BEES?
IT'S NOT RUN BY A BACKWOODS
BEE-FUCKER CALLED BURT.
IT'S RUN BY CLOROX.
TOM'S OF MAINE?
THE DEODORANT WHICH DID
SO LITTLE TO DEODORIZE YOUR
FRESHMAN YEAR ROOMMATE?
IT'S NOW OWNED BY
COLGATE PALMOLIVE.
AND THEN THERE'S GOOSE ISLAND.
THEIR ADS FEATURE BEARDY BREWERS
RUBBING HOPS ON THEIR FACES.
WHAT THEY DON'T MENTION IS
GOOSE ISLAND IS OWNED BY
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, AND THAT FARM
YOU JUST SAW IS LOCATED AT
822 BUDWEISER LOOP.
IT'S JUST PAST BUD LIGHT
LIME-A-RITA BOULEVARD.
BASICALLY, IF YOU SEE THE
MASS GRAVE OF CLYDESDALE HORSES,
TURN LEFT AND YOU'RE THERE.
AND IT SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT THE
RAPID RATE OF MERGERS THAT EVEN
JIM CRAMER OCCASIONALLY FINDS
HIMSELF IN DISBELIEF AT ONE
HAPPENING.
WATCH HIM REACT TO A MEGA-MERGER
IN THE ALUMINUM CAN INDUSTRY.
>> BALL CORP'S ACQUISITION
OF REXXAM IS TAKING THE NUMBER
OF COMPETITORS IN THIS SPACE
DOWN FROM -- GET THIS --
FROM 3 TO 2.
HOW DID THEY LET THAT HAPPEN?
>> John: IT'S NOT GREAT WHEN
A BUSINESS CASUAL LOUIS CK
WITH A SOUND-EFFECTS BOARD
IS SAYING, "HOLY SHIT,
THIS WAS A REALLY BAD IDEA."
BUT "HOW DID THEY LET THAT
HAPPEN" IS A GOOD QUESTION,
AND THE ANSWER IS INTERESTING.
BECAUSE WE'VE HAD
ANTITRUST LAWS ON THE BOOKS FOR
MORE THAN A CENTURY.
AND I'M NOT SAYING EVERY SINGLE
MERGER IS BAD.
SOMETIMES, BUSINESSES GETTING
BIGGER CAN LEAD TO GREATER
EFFICIENCIES AND IMPROVEMENTS.
THE TENSION IS BETWEEN ALLOWING
THAT AND PREVENTING THEM
FROM DOING HARM.
IT'S A BALANCE.
BUT SINCE THE LATE 1970s, THAT
BALANCE HAS TIPPED DECIDEDLY IN
FAVOR OF BEING MERGER-FRIENDLY.
WHICH HAS LED TO REAL PROBLEMS.
AND LET'S START
WITH THE OBVIOUS.
FOR WORKERS, MERGERS CAN OFTEN
MEAN BIG LAYOFFS.
BUT IT'S NOT JUST EMPLOYEES THAT
CAN SUFFER.
CONSUMERS CAN TOO,
AS JIM CRAMER EXPLAINED,
IN THAT ALUMINUM CAN SEGMENT,
IN AN INEXPLICABLY SARCASTIC
TONE OF VOICE.
>> I ALWAYS SAY COMPETITION,
WHILE GREAT FOR YOU A CONSUMER,
IS ANATHEMA TO PROFITS.
SOMETIMES A BUSINESS WILL BE
A TOTAL MONOPOLY WITH
NO COMPETITION WHATSOEVER.
AND WHILE THAT'S THE IDEAL,
IT'S VERY RARE TO SEE A GENUINE
MONOPOLY BECAUSE OF COURSE
IT'S AGAINST THE LAW.
WHICH BRINGS US TO THE NEXT BEST
THING: AN OLIGOPOLY, WHERE
A HANDFUL OF COMPANIES CONTROL
AN ENTIRE INDUSTRY, COEXISTING
PEACEFULLY WITHOUT MUCH IN THE
WAY OF PRICE COMPETITION.
>> John: THAT'S A WEIRD
TONE TO USE TO DESCRIBE
SOMETHING THAT'S AWFUL.
"IT'S RARE TO SEE GENUINE
BESTIALITY, BECAUSE OF COURSE,
IT'S AGAINST THE LAW,
WHICH BRINGS US TO THE NEXT BEST
THING: HAVING SEX WITH A STUFFED
ANIMAL WHILE LOOKING AT PICTURES
OF A REAL HORSE."
AND FOR A SENSE OF WHAT IT CAN
LOOK LIKE WHEN "A HANDFUL OF
COMPANIES COEXIST PEACEFULLY
WITHOUT MUCH IN THE WAY OF PRICE
COMPETITION,"
JUST LOOK AT AIRLINES.
IN 2012, ONE AIRLINE EXECUTIVE
TOLD AN INDUSTRY CONFERENCE,
CONSOLIDATION HAS ALLOWED US
TO DO THINGS LIKE ANCILLARY
REVENUES, WHICH IS JARGON
FOR ALL THOSE FEES THAT DRIVE
YOU FUCKING CRAZY.
AMERICAN WAS THE FIRST MAJOR
AIRLINE TO CHARGE FOR YOUR FIRST
CHECKED BAG, BACK IN 2008.
AND BACK THEN, PEOPLE COULDN'T
BELIEVE IT.
>> AMERICAN AIRLINES WILL SOON
CHARGE FIFTEEN DOLLARS FOR THE
FIRST CHECKED BAG.
THAT'S ON TOP OF A $25 FEE
FOR YOUR SECOND ONE.
>> $15?
HOLY COW!
WELL, I'LL HAVE TO PUT MY
UNDERWEAR IN MY POCKETS.
>> John: YES, FIRST, THAT IS
A DELIGHTFUL MAN.
ALTHOUGH IT DOES MAKE YOU WONDER
WHETHER HE FLIES WITH
BAGS FULL OF UNDERWEAR
AND NOTHING ELSE.
BUT WITHIN MONTHS, MOST MAJOR
AIRLINES HAD FOLLOWED AMERICAN'S
LEAD, AND IT WAS ESSENTIALLY
THE INDUSTRY STANDARD.
AND IT'S EASY FOR THAT TO HAPPEN
WHEN THERE'S ONLY A HANDFUL
OF BIG PLAYERS.
IN FACT, SINCE THEN, THEY'VE
ADDED AND INCREASED BAG FEES
MULTIPLE TIMES, OFTEN MOVING IN
TANDEM, WHICH IS HOW THOSE FEES
HAVE GONE FROM GENERATING AROUND
$540 MILLION A YEAR A DECADE
AGO TO $4.2 BILLION NOW.
AND THAT IS INFURIATING.
AFTER ALL, IF I WANTED
EXORBITANT FEES THAT KEEP
GETTING RAISED ALL THE TIME
DESPITE SHITTY SERVICE,
I'D BECOME A CUSTOMER OF AT&T.
FUCK YOU, AT&T.
AND YOU MIGHT BE ANGRY WITH THE
SERVICE YOU GET FROM AIRLINES,
BUT THANKS TO CONSOLIDATION,
THEY DON'T REALLY NEED TO GIVE
A SHIT WHAT YOU THINK.
DON'T BELIEVE ME?
REMEMBER THAT AWFUL VIDEO THAT
WENT AROUND EARLIER THIS YEAR?
>> THE SHOCKING IMAGES OF
A PASSENGER CAUGHT
IN A TRAVEL NIGHTMARE.
A MAN VISIBLY SHAKEN
AS HE'S YANKED.
AND THEN DRAGGED OFF A UNITED
JET BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
ALL AFTER REFUSING TO GIVE UP
HIS SEAT.
>> John: YEAH, THAT IS THE MOST
HORRIFYING THING YOU CAN
POSSIBLY SEE ON AN AIRPLANE,
UNLESS YOUR IN-FLIGHT MOVIE IS
"THE BOSS BABY".
A MOVIE THAT COMBINES THE
UNBEARABLE SMUGNESS OF ALEC
BALDWIN, WITH THE UNBEARABLE
SMUGNESS OF A BABY.
IN THE WAKE OF THAT INCIDENT,
PEOPLE SAID IT WAS A PR
NIGHTMARE, AND THERE WAS TALK ON
TWITTER OF BOYCOTTING UNITED.
THE PROBLEM IS, ON CERTAIN
ROUTES, THEY'RE THE ONLY OPTION.
SO A BOYCOTT'S PRETTY HARD
TO PULL OFF.
AND THAT'S ARGUABLY WHY THEIR
CEO WAS LATER ABLE TO OPEN HIS
EARNINGS CALL FOR THAT QUARTER,
BY DESCRIBING A PERIOD IN WHICH
I WILL REMIND YOU --
A PASSENGER HAD HIS TEETH
KNOCKED OUT ON ONE OF UNITED'S
PLANES, LIKE THIS.
>> WELCOME TO A TERRIFIC SECOND
QUARTER, STRONG FINANCIAL
RESULTS AND EVEN MORE INCREDIBLE
OPERATIONAL RESULTS...
AS YOU THINK OF OUR CUSTOMERS,
I WANT TO THANK THEM FOR THEIR
CONTINUED LOYALTY AND SUPPORT.
WE CONTINUE TO FIND NEW AND
BETTER WAYS TO SERVICE THEM AND
MAKE THEM MORE COMFORTABLE ON
OUR AIRLINE.
>> John: IS IT ANY WONDER
THEIR EARNINGS STAYED SOLID?
UNITED IS SOMETIMES THE ONLY WAY
TO GET TO WHERE YOU'RE GOING,
WHICH EXPLAINS THEIR NEW SLOGAN:
"YOU WANT TO FUCKIN' ROLLERBLADE
TO HOUSTON?
SHUT UP AND GET IN."
AND WHEN AN INDUSTRY GETS TOO
CONSOLIDATED, ANY COMPANY TRYING
TO COMPETE WITH THEM OR SURVIVE
IN THEIR SUPPLY CHAIN
CAN GET CRUSHED.
WE ALL KNOW ABOUT AMAZON,
WAL-MART OR GOOGLE, BUT THERE
ARE LESS OBVIOUS EXAMPLES OF
THIS, TOO.
TAKE EYEWEAR.
IF YOU GO INTO A
LENSCRAFTERS, YOU'LL SEE FRAMES
FROM BRANDS LIKE
PRADA, DOLCE AND GABBANA,
BURBERRY AND RALPH LAUREN --
ALL OF WHICH, IT TURNS OUT,
ARE MADE BY AN ITALIAN COMPANY
CALLED LUXOTTICA.
WHO, INCIDENTALLY, ALSO OWN
LENSCRAFTERS, AND
SUNGLASS HUT, AND
PEARLE VISION, AND RUNS
TARGET OPTICAL
AND SEARS OPTICAL.
WHAT CAN HAPPEN WHEN A SMALLER
COMPANY GOES UP AGAINST THEM?
WELL, JUST ASK OAKLEY.
>> OAKLEY WAS A BIG COMPETITOR.
AND THEY HAD A FIGHT WITH
LUXOTTICA.
AND LUXOTTICA BASICALLY SAID,
"WE'RE DROPPING YOU FROM OUR
STORES.
>> THEY REFUSED TO SELL THEIR
GLASSES IN THEIR STORES.
>> YEAH, THERE WAS A DISPUTE
ABOUT PRICING, AND THEY DROPPED
OAKLEY FROM THE STORES, AND
OAKLEY'S STOCK PRICE COLLAPSED.
>> THERE WERE SOME ISSUES
BETWEEN THE TWO COMPANIES IN THE
BEGINNING OF THE 2000s.
BUT BOTH OF THEM UNDERSTOOD THAT
IT WAS BETTER TO GO ALONG.
WE MERGED WITH OAKLEY IN 2007.
>> YOU BOUGHT OAKLEY.
THEY TRIED TO COMPETE AND THEY
LOST AND THEN YOU BOUGHT THEM.
>> I UNDERSTAND YOUR THEORY,
BUT THEY UNDERSTOOD THAT LIFE
WAS BETTER TOGETHER.
>> John: WOW.
THAT IS THE MENACING TONE OF A
BOND VILLAIN.
THEY UNDERSTOOD LIFE WAS BETTER
TOGETHER.
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME I'VE EVER
FELT SORRY FOR OAKLEY,
THE OFFICIAL SUNGLASSES OF
GUYS WHO UNIRONICALLY USE THE
TERM: "FINGERBLASTING".
AND THERE'S ONE MORE VICTIM OF
CONSOLIDATION YOU MAY NOT THINK
ABOUT, AND THAT'S THE PRODUCTS
THEMSELVES.
BECAUSE HEAVILY CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES CAN LOSE THE
INCENTIVE TO INNOVATE.
AND THE BEST EXAMPLE OF THIS MAY
BE THE CABLE BOX BENEATH
YOUR TV.
IF YOU HAVE ONE, YOU PROBABLY
HATE IT.
BECAUSE IT'S HUGE, GLITCHY, AND
MAY BE ONE OF THE LARGEST
ENERGY-CONSUMING ITEMS IN YOUR
HOUSE, EVEN WHEN IT'S TURNED
OFF.
BUT IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT, CABLE
COMPANIES HAVE NO REAL INCENTIVE
TO IMPROVE THEM.
THEY'RE REGIONAL MONOPOLIES.
AND, AGAIN, THEY KNOW YOU HAVE
NOWHERE ELSE TO GO.
AND YOU CAN'T EVEN SMASH YOUR
CABLE BOX OUT OF FRUSTRATION,
BECAUSE YOU'RE RENTING IT, AND
THEY'LL CHARGE YOU HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS IF YOU DON'T GIVE IT
BACK.
WHICH IS WHY WE WENT TO THE
TROUBLE OF BLOWING THIS ONE UP
FOR YOU.
TAKE A LOOK.
PRETTY CATHARTIC TO WATCH,
RIGHT?
I HOPE THAT HELPS.
FEEL FREE TO WATCH IT AGAIN IN
SLOW MOTION.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW: IT SUFFERED.
THE POINT HERE IS, WE SEEM TO
HAVE FORGOTTEN HOW IMPORTANT
ANTITRUST IS, AND ARE ALL NOW
BEING FORCED TO LIVE WITH THE
CONSEQUENCES.
BECAUSE THIS ISSUE AFFECTS
ALMOST EVERYTHING YOU DO.
ANGRY AT BANKS?
THE INDUSTRY IS DOMINATED BY
JUST THESE FOUR.
FRUSTRATED WITH YOUR HEALTH
INSURANCE PROVIDER?
ODDS ARE, IT'S ONE OF THESE.
AND IF THIS WHOLE STORY IS
INFURIATING YOU SO MUCH YOU'RE
YEARNING FOR THE SWEET ESCAPE
OF DEATH, WELL, BAD LUCK.
THE CASKET INDUSTRY IS
CONTROLLED BY
THESE THREE COMPANIES.
OH, AND IT GETS EVEN WORSE:
THE AFTERLIFE IS ACTUALLY
CONTROLLED BY ONE RELIGION.
I'M NOT SAYING WHICH ONE, BUT
WHEN YOU FIND OUT, YOU ARE GONNA
BE SO MAD!
THE POINT IS, WE HAVE LAWS TO
PREVENT THE WORST EFFECTS OF
CONSOLIDATION.
AND IT MAY BE TIME TO USE THEM
TO IMPOSE STRICTER STANDARDS,
AND EMPOWER THE
FTC AND DOJ ANTITRUST DIVISIONS.
WHICH IS SOMETHING MOST PEOPLE
WOULD GET BEHIND, AND NEARLY
EVERY POLITICIAN SHOULD.
AFTER ALL, THERE'S ONE THING
THEY CAN'T STOP SAYING
WELL, IF THEY REALLY BELIEVE
THAT, IT MAY BE TIME FOR THEM TO
STOP TALKING ABOUT BACKBONES,
AND ACTUALLY FUCKING GROW ONE.
AND NOW THIS.
>> Announcer: AND NOW ALL OF
JIM CRAMER'S SOUND BUTTONS
REPLACED WITH FART NOISES.
>> THERE AFTER RAISE MONEY TO
PAY BACK THEIR UNHAPPY CLIENTS.
THINGS KEEP WORKING OUT.
BUY HIGH AND THEN SELL LOW.
A TIME-HONORED WAY TO LOSE MONEY
MONEY.
I WANT YOU FEEL EMBOLDENED.
I WAS WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS.
[FART NOISES]
>> John: FINALLY TONIGHT,
A QUICK WORD REGARDING
TRAINS.
BASICALLY, BUSES THAT FUCK.
YOU PROBABLY KNOW THAT WE
RECENTLY BECAME OBSESSED WITH
WNEP SCRANTON'S BACKYARD TRAIN
THAT RUNS BEHIND THEIR WEATHER
FORECASTS.
ON OUR LAST PROGRAM, WE ACTUALLY
MADE THEM A RIDICULOUSLY LARGE
TRAIN SET, AND ENDED THE SHOW
WITH THIS PLEA:
PLEASE WNEP -- CALL US TO
ARRANGE PICKUP OR DELIVERY OF
THE GREATEST BACKYARD TRAIN THE
LOCAL NEWS HAS EVER SEEN.
IT'S TRUE.
WE BUILT THEM AN ENORMOUS TRAIN
SET AND THEN DEMANDED THEY DRIVE
TWO AND A HALF HOURS TO COME GET
IT.
WHICH IS BASICALLY THE WORLD'S
WORST GIFT, RIGHT AFTER GIVING
SOMEONE A PLANT.
THAT'S NOT A PRESENT.
IT'S AN ASSIGNMENT.
AND IN CLASSIC SCRANTON STYLE,
VIEWERS WERE SPLIT ON THE ISSUE
OF THE NEW TRAIN.
SOME, LIKE THIS ONE, WERE
POSITIVE:
>> YOU HAVE GOT TO GO GET THAT,
THAT TRAIN, THAT, THAT BEAUTIFUL
TRAIN FOR THE BACKYARD THAT HBO
MADE.
YOUR LITTLE ONE, I CAN'T EVEN
LOOK AT IT NOW.
>> John: COME ON.
THERE'S NO NEED TO MAKE THIS
ABOUT HOW SHITTY.
YOUR WORDS --
THE REGULAR BACKYARD TRAIN IS.
AND HEY, TO BE FAIR: NOT
EVERYONE LIKED OURS, EITHER.
>> I WON'T LET SOME NEW YORK BIG
SHOT COME AND GIVE THAT BIG,
FANCY TRAIN.
THE HECKS WITH THEM NEW YORK
FELLOWS THERE.
WHAT DO THEY KNOW ABOUT TRAINS
ANYWAY?
>> John: YOU KNOW WHAT?
THAT MAN HAS A POINT.
THE SUBWAY PROVES NEW YORKERS
KNOW NOTHING ABOUT TRAINS.
SUBWAY TRAINS ARE BASICALLY JUST
ELONGATED DUMPSTERS WITH SEATS
THAT SLOWLY ROLL THROUGH
RAT-INFESTED SADNESS TUNNELS.
BUT THOSE ANGRY CALLERS ACTUALLY
GOT THEIR WISH, BECAUSE, SADLY,
OUR TRAIN SET WON'T BE REPLACING
THEIR BACKYARD TRAIN, FOR THE
SIMPLE REASON THAT IT DOESN'T
FIT IN THEIR BACKYARD.
WHICH, TO BE COMPLETELY HONEST,
WE KIND OF THOUGHT MIGHT BE
THE CASE.
WE DID THINK ABOUT THE
LOGISTICS, IT'S JUST WE DECIDED
IT WOULD BE FUNNIER TO GIVE THEM
A REALLY BIG TRAIN.
IT WASN'T AN ACCIDENT.
WE'RE JUST TERRIBLE PEOPLE.
BUT THE GOOD NEWS IS, WNEP HAVE
DONATED OUR TRAIN SET TO
SCRANTON'S LOCAL
ELECTRIC CITY TROLLEY MUSEUM.
OR AS IT'S KNOWN TO THE CHILDREN
OF SCRANTON, "EVERY FUCKING
YEAR'S CLASS TRIP."
AND THEY WENT ALL-OUT, EVEN
USING -- AND THIS IS TRUE --
A POLICE ESCORT TO BRING OUR
TRAIN SET THROUGH SCRANTON.
JUST TO BE CLEAR.
THEY TOOK A TRAIN, LOADED IT IN
A TRUCK, AND THEN SURROUNDED IT
WITH CARS.
SO THEY WEREN'T SO MUCH "GOING"
TO A TRANSPORTATION MUSEUM AS
"BECOMING" ONE.
AND ON FRIDAY, THEY CELEBRATED
THE BIG UNVEILING.
>> NOW THAT IRRESPONSIBLY LARGE
TRAIN IS IN DISPLAY IN SCRANTON
FOR ALL TO SEE.
JOHN OLIVER, THE HOST OF LAST
WEEK TONIGHT, COULD NOT MAKE IT
TO TODAY'S DEDICATION, BUT WE
WERE HONORED WITH THE PRESENCE
OF TWO OF THE SHOW'S CHARACTERS:
MR. NUTTERBUTTER HIMSELF AND THE
DANCING ZEBRA WERE BOTH ON HAND
TO TAKE IN PART OF TODAY'S
FESTIVITIES.
>> John: IT'S TRUE!
I COULDN'T MAKE IT TO THE EVENT,
BECAUSE I HAVE TO WORK ALL WEEK
TO MAKE THIS SHOW
"STEPHEN AND JIMMY."
BUT WE DID SEND OUR FAVORITE
NATURALLY OCCURRING BARCODE --
THE BOLIVIAN ZEBRA.
AND MR. NUTTERBUTTER, AMERICA'S
FURRIEST CO-DEFENDANT.
BUT LOOK, THIS WHOLE TRAIN
ADVENTURE HAS BEEN A LOT OF FUN,
AND I WANT TO THANK THE PEOPLE
OF SCRANTON, BECAUSE IT TURNS
OUT, THEY FOUND THE PERFECT WAY
TO SAY THANK YOU AND ALSO GET
BACK AT ME.
>> NOW WE HAVE MADE SOME
AMENDMENTS TO IT SINCE YOU SAW
IT LAST HERE ON NEWSWATCH 16
AT 5:00.
JOHN OLIVER'S FACE IS NOW ON IT.
>> John: OH, WELL PLAYED,
SCRANTON!
THERE IS NO MORE PASSIVE
AGGRESSIVE WAY TO THANK SOMEONE
FOR A GIFT THAN BY DRIVING A
TRAIN DIRECTLY INTO THEIR FACE.
THAT'S OUR SHOW.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
SEE YOU NEXT WEEK.
GOOD NIGHT!